So it's time for a comparison,
which one is better?
Well, as you saw since we built both dummy APIs,
there aren't too many differences
but of course there are some small differences
which of course can also be tricky to wrap your head around.
If you would compare the code though,
it's really not too different
and that's a good thing.
It means that switching from Node to Deno will be easy.
Of course, also the other way around though.
There are some core differences
in the philosophies, of course.
The permission thing is an important difference.
The fact that Deno embraces
modern JavaScript and TypeScript
out of the box so that you don't need to bring
any extra tools or opt into extra experimental features
that of course also can be very nice.
That being said though, Deno overall of course
is still pretty new.
If we compare Deno to Node,
then we of course have all those different features.
We of course have the different philosophies
also because Deno is simply
more modern than Node, it's way newer.
But we also have one other key difference
which is a disadvantage for Deno.
And that's the fact that it is very new.
Because of that, it can offer
all those shiny new features.
It has all those cool features built in,
but of course it also means we have no big ecosystem
that we certainly still have bugs in there
that we will see changes
to some of the core libraries and modules
that we don't know which third-party modules
will survive and which ones won't.
And that overall, it's not really getting used
by any production applications or bigger companies.
Node on the other hand,
certainly doesn't have all those shiny features built in
and it has a different philosophy
when it comes to permissions
and when it comes to the modules system
where you have to install everything locally.
But for one, of course you might prefer that
so that might not even be a disadvantage.
And in addition, even if you prefer Deno's approach,
you still of course have the huge advantage for Node
that it is mature and established,
that we have no real major bugs in there,
that it has a very strong ecosystem,
that it's actively maintained
by a lot of contributors,
that we have thousands of third-party packages
which we can use with Node that help you
solve any problem you could face along the way,
and that is of course getting used
by thousands of companies and developers out there.
You not only find more resources on Node,
you'll also find more jobs and employers.
And personally, I think it's unlikely
that a lot of companies will now
start replacing Node with Deno.
Some might, but certainly not all
and probably not right now.
So, when it comes to deciding
which one you should continue with,
it comes down to which features matters to you.
Which style do you prefer?
Is that permission thing important to you?
Do you like the URL imports
instead of local installations?
Or do you maybe prefer Node's approach?
But besides that, the maturity in the ecosystem
should also matter to you.
And there, as I said, Deno is very new
and very immature so of course
here we have a lot of advantages on Node's side.
So my recommendation would be that,
at the moment at least,
you look into Deno, you play around with it
but you mainly use it for side and dummy projects.
And it's really important to realize
and keep in mind that Node is established
and it's not going to go anywhere.
So even if Deno is going to become bigger,
learning Node will never be wrong.
You would be able to switch to Deno easily
so even if you need to do that, it won't be hard.
But chances are high that Node
is not just not going anywhere today, but also tomorrow.
It's getting used by so many large companies.
It has this established ecosystem,
it has a proven track record.
And the disadvantages of Node,
which are being fixed by Deno,
simply might not matter too much to you.
So what you'll learn in this course
is everything but obsolete.
It's completely up to date
and more important than ever before.
Deno is a nice alternative which is worth exploring
and hopefully this module got you started with it,
but it's not like you should start
replacing everything with Deno now immediately.
That is certainly not the case,
and that might never be the case.